if you really think about the meaning of
the word conservative there is
absolutely no reason why it would be
conservative to be pro-war and there's
no reason why expanding new frontiers of
warfare would be described under any
cultural conditions as conservative
nevertheless in 2019 this is one of the
most widespread phenomena in the world
in Japan right now Japan's history of
democracy radically fundamentally
different from Canada the United States
radically fundamentally alien from
what's going on politically in Western
Europe in Japan would you describe the
left wing or the right wing as pro-peace
which side wants to expand the military
which side wants to be involved in
foreign interventions in military
adventures build up the military status
Japan is it the right wing of the left
wing and why I mean the overall question
raised by this video why is it left wing
to be anti-war or in other words is
there a conservative peace movement yet
now even if it were entirely cynical it
would make sense for conservatives to
have an anti-war propa smoove Minh Tevan
who were purely for cynical electoral
reasons and we saw this demonstrated
dramatically in the contest between
Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the
United States when it was very clear
that Hillary Clinton was a hundred and
ten percent bellicose and pro-war the
voting public looked for any little
crumb any little indication that Donald
Trump was relatively anti-war or
relatively Pro peace and there were a
few incoherent things that Donald Trump
said you guys may not remember this now
but Donald Trump said spontaneously in
contrast to Hillary Clinton Hillary
Clinton making very negative statements
about Russia and being more or less at
war with Russia
Trump simply said if we could be in
alliance with Russia against Isis
against the Islamic state that would be
good
we need various vague and perhaps
misleading statements about the extent
to which he was the pro-peace candidate
now obviously an earlier stage of the
same election it was really Bernie
Sanders who was the Pro peace candidate
and now Donald Trump is in power and you
see just a little interest yes in peace
but nevertheless my point is here in a
world of finite political choices in the
United States of America the choices are
more finite than anywhere else you might
expect that somewhere on planet Earth
whether in Japan or Greece or England or
Ireland or Canada somewhere conservatism
would be associated with being Pro peace
or anti war you guys can leave me
messages in the comment section you can
tell me if you know anywhere on earth
where the right-wing or where the
Conservatives are associated with peace
and the anti-war movement you tell me
where I can't think of a single example
and the strange thing is the wars were
talking about are mutually alien the
situation that Greece is in with that
long-standing hostility between Greece
and Turkey has absolutely nothing in
common with the situation that Japan is
in where one of their major concerns is
North Korea and yet nevertheless we have
this left versus right spectrum of
values that seems to cross all cultures
and through at least several periods of
time seemingly about the last 50 years
and has this consistent pattern what I'm
going to read you right now is an
article that illustrates an example to
the contrary quote how to describe u.s.
foreign policy over the last couple of
decades question mark disasterous comes
to mind arrogant and murderous also seem
appropriate
close quote you might think this is the
beginning of a left-wing diatribe in The
Guardian newspaper it is not
this isn't the publication known as the
national interest it is written by Doug
bandow Doug bandow
is a representative of the Cato
Institute the Cato Institute was
co-founded by Murray Rothbard
here is a rare example of a right-wing
voice I can't say conservative
right-wing libertarian voice that is Pro
peace and anti-war nowadays I'm Murray
Rothbard went all the way with this
theme okay Murray Rothbard
went so far and so consistently in this
direction that he openly claimed the
United States in his opinion shouldn't
have entered World War two to defeat
Nazis so his kids version of
conservatism equates to isolationism
isolationism even when the situation is
literally Adolf Hitler is going to
conquer Europe and Adolf Hitler is going
to murder
Massacre millions of people Murray
Rothbard position the Cato Institute's
position that they still represent in
u.s. foreign policy debates within the
panoply of options the diversity of
voices in American democracy still to
this day they represent the right-wing
isolationist pro-peace option and I
think it's worth debating it's worth
discussing maybe that is the only
sincere pro-peace position in 2019
my parents were quote unquote peace
activists they were communists the
reality was they were in favor of every
war fought by and for communist powers
they supported the Soviet Union when the
Soviet Union and get invaded Afghanistan
they supported every crummy war the
Soviet Union was involved in if the
Soviet War pardon me if the Soviet Union
in
the Czech Republic to crush dissent
there back that I resent no questions
asked um but they oppose Wars when the
United States was a pursuing one
objective or another what they wanted
ultimately were wars that the Communists
could win it was a completely phony
completely insincere peace movement and
I was a very small child asking them the
meanings of these different buttons and
slogans and posters we had in our home
variously expressing anti-nuclear and
anti-war sentiments and my parents were
trying to explain to me that really
their anti-war position meant war in
1998 Secretary of State Albright
declared that quote if we have to use
force it is because we are America we
are the indispensable nation we stand
tall and we see further than other
countries into the future and we see the
danger here to all of us so that was a
quote from Madeleine Albright within
this article close quote even if her
claim was implausible America blundered
into the Korean War and barely achieved
a passive welcome the Johnson
administration infused Vietnam with
dramatically outsized importance for
decades Washington foolishly refused to
engage the People's Republic of China
Washington backed dictators in cuba
nicaragua iran and elsewhere fell in
gloriously an economic embargo against
Cuba that continues to this day helped
to turn Fidel Castro into a global folk
hero Washington veered dangerously close
to nuclear war with Moscow during the
Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 and again
two decades later during military
exercises in Europe
US officials were rarely prepared for
events that occurred in the next week or
month let alone years later Americans
did no better than the French in Vietnam
Americans managed events in Africa no
better than the British French and
Portuguese colonial overlords Washington
made more than its share of bad even
awful decisions in dealing with other
nations around the globe
perhaps the worst failing of u.s.
foreign policy was ignoring the
inevitable impact of foreign
intervention Americans would never
passively accept another nation bombing
and fading and occupying their nation or
interfering with their political system
even if outgunned they would resist yet
Washington has undertaken all of these
practices with little consideration of
the impact of those most affected
hence the rise of terrorism against the
United States terrorism horrid an awful
though it is became the weapon of choice
of weaker peoples against intervention
by the world's industrialized nations
it's paused so I'm gonna read another
paragraph of this it's a very careful
and very slanted selection of examples
he gives you quote America blundered
into the Korean War and barely achieved
a passable outcome close quote
have you been to South Korea have you
been there I mean people are not such
bumpkins now in 2019
have you watched South Korean movies
South Korean TV shows maybe YouTube
videos can you imagine what an
unbelievable horror it would be what an
unbelievable tragedy would be if South
Korea today were ruled by the communist
dictatorship in North Korea do you have
any heart at all do you have a human
heart
I know it's less dramatic than the
example of the Nazis in Europe but it's
not all that much less dramatic you know
and you're just gonna say here that
America blundered into the Korean War
and barely achieved a passive locum do
you know they didn't just fight against
the Korean army they fought against the
Chinese army they fought against
numerically one of the largest armies in
the world not the best armed not the
most high-tech but nevertheless enormous
in the United States with a very very
small commitment force of the United
States won and they won without using
nuclear weapons which they could have
done that's Korean war is no joke there
were crimes against humanity there were
atrocities committed by the Americans
and it's really important
you meant that history and learn from it
it's really really important but
nevertheless I think this type of
argument in 2019 is getting more and
more difficult to make I made a video
recently talking about the current
situation in Afghanistan and you know
what it may be more difficult for you to
sympathize with the kind of secular
educated middle class minority in
Afghanistan people who embrace Western
democratic values to some extent their
lives are going to be irreparably
destroyed if you allow the Taliban to
reconquer Afghanistan and that's what's
happening right now do you have a heart
chef nope do you have any human sympathy
and conversely this warrant Afghanistan
has gone on for such a long time you
know that educated westernized middle
class minority if the United States
hadn't invaded in the first place they
would not exist at all or they would
exist as refugees in some other country
they wouldn't be living in Afghanistan
they would have had to have run away
from the Taliban and form somewhere else
all of these examples you know Cuba you
name it there's another way to tell this
same story and this line of reasoning I
think I think the fact that airplane
tickets have become cheaper and cheaper
and access to information through the
internet has become easier and easier I
think that the isolationist view of
Murray Rothbard has become harder and
harder to argue for in this day and age
even though believe me I mean I look
back at the last few decades of what
happened in Afghanistan and Iraq I am
just as skeptical as anyone else I'm
just as capable of trumped-up moral
indignation as anyone else but the
question of fighting a moral war versus
an immoral war is very very different
from the question of isolationism versus
in
vention and hey if you think it's so
great you know when you don't intervene
take a look at what happened in Myanmar
in the 20th century and even 21st
century look at the decades and decades
during which time you know really the
United States should have intervened in
Myanmar and they didn't and it was a
disaster look at the decades and decades
during which the United States should
have intervened in North Korea and they
didn't unbelievable humanitarian so this
is the game we're playing
all right the United States of returning
to this article I quote quote the United
States record since September 11th has
been uniquely counterproductive rather
than minimize hostility towards America
Washington adopted a policy highlighted
by launching new Wars killing more
civilians and ravaging additional
societies guaranteed to create enemies
exacerbate radicalism and spread
terrorism blowback is everywhere among
the worst examples Iraqi insurgents
mutated into Isis which reach military
havoc throughout the Middle East and
turn to terrorism when you think about
the meaning of the word conservative and
you think about what really defines the
left-wing
you know the rational pursuit of new and
far-flung horizons it makes sense it
even makes sense on a religious level in
terms of Christianity as a faith which
in the Western world is still this
important and influential part of
conservatism it makes sense that the
Conservatives would be the voice for
peace and that it would be the left-wing
saying that we ought to morally go out
and fight so that the people of
Afghanistan can have a secular liberal
left-wing future so that in future the
people of Afghanistan can be more like
us can enjoy our liberties our
privileges that from a left-wing
perspective hope for the future of
Afghanistan is worth fighting for
hope for the future of Myanmar hope for
the future of Vietnam
would actually make sense if the left
were the ones arguing for war and the
Conservatives were the ones arguing for
peace but if there is a voice for peace
on the right-wing on the moderate right
or amongst conservatives in the 21st
century we have yet to hear it